Answer the following questions:

1.) What is exception handling?
Handling in a structured and controlled way any errors that might happen during run-time

2.) What is the exception hierarchy? What is the difference between the Exception class and the Error class?
when any exception occurs, a Throwable object is created. That has 2 sub classes. Errors and Exceptions.
Errors are usually dealing with the machine you are using and so less in our current scope of study.
Exceptions cover the runtime issues and the checked ways to handle the exception

3.) What is a try/catch?
A way to check a block of code that you know may give you an exception of some kind
if certain conditions happen. The try checks if it works. If it doesnt
then it transfers duties to the catch for graceful handling

4.) What exceptions have you come across thus far?

I recall early on trying to manipulate characters and strings together with loops and comparing,
 I ran into alot of exceptions dealing with java.lang and then string or other endings.
 I do need to start looking closer to understand them...now that I do better.
Oh ya and the file not found exception for sure.

5.) How many catch statement can you have following a try?
There isnt a specific limit

6.) How many try statements can you have preceding a catch?
1 unless it is nested

7.) What does the finally statement do in a try/catch/finally block?



8.) Can you nest exceptions? If so, when would you nest an exception?

Yes, for instance in a case that you want a default action to a any exception
unless it is a more specific exception you want to handle different..then nest that
inside the first default case

9.) If you want to catch an ArrayIndexOutOfBounds exception and an Exception exception,
    which should you catch first? Why?
the Exception if it is a more minor exception to deal with to allow the program to keep
going and maybe it prevents an ArrayIndexOutOfBounds that way.

10.) How do you rethrow and exception? Why would you rethrow an exception?
have the catch that takes in the exception also throw the exception. It will go to the next catch
This could help you have different catches deal with different aspects of an exception

11.) What is the purpose of the throws keyword?
to throw a created object of type that is Throwable